# **Code to calculate and plot count of amino acids present 3 position upstream and downstream of Cysteine and Dicysteine in a list of peptide sequences**
# Classify neighbours of Cysteine and dicysteine as **Polar, non-polar, negatively charged and positively charged** in a list of peptide sequence  

Cysteine has been considered as a “hydrophilic” amino acid because of its pKa and its ability to form (weak) hydrogen bonds. However, cysteines are found mostly in hydrophobic environments, either in S–S (disulphide) form or in free cysteine form. When free cysteines are found on the surface of proteins, they are often involved in catalytic residues, as in cysteine proteases, P-loop phosphatases, etc.
Disulfide bridges formed between cysteine residues in peptides and proteins are fundamental building blocks for the molecular architecture and, thus, can govern basic biological processes
Cysteine is a non-essential amino acid important for making protein, and for other metabolic functions
Cysteine (Fig. 1) is one of 20 naturally occurring, 'biogenic' amino acids which linked by peptide bonds form polypeptides and proteins. Like the other amino acids cysteine is abundant as L-form. It is genetically encoded by two possible codons (nucleotide triplets of mRNA) UGU and UGC. Structurally cysteine belongs to the sulfur amino acids, because of sulfur atom appearing in its side chain. The sulfur atom of cysteine is involved in formation the sulfhydryl group which is very reactive. That differs cysteine from another sulfur amino acid - methionine which has a methyl group attached to the sulfur.
Cysteine can be easily oxidized to form a dimer containing disulfide bridge between two cysteines. Such dimer is known as cystine (Fig. 2) and this feature is very important for analysis the primary structure of proteins, for effects on changes in secondary structure and for stabilization tertiary and quaternary structure. Sulfhydryl group of cysteine can be considered also as a very strong reducing factor, which is very important for activity of many proteins, a oligopeptides (glutathione), has a strong influence on redox potential of environment in certain compartments in vivo, and can form a center of the active site of some enzymes.
